Suggestions for BEP-009 (#708)
bids-standard/bids-specification: src/04-modality-specific-files/09-positron-emission-tomography.md

-   One subject single dynamic scan (pet, blood):
    [`pet_example3`](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/i0c3iq50id4s0d3/AABSjaczHM1SQnMRvh3fc7fna?dl=0)

Further PET datasets are available from [OpenNeuro](https://openneuro.org).

## Terminology and conventions

PET-BIDS is fully consistent with the BIDS specification as a whole.
However, BIDS was initially developed in the context of MRI,
so some terminology may be unfamiliar to researchers from each field.
This section adds clarifications to
[Common Principles - Definitions](../02-common-principles.md#definitions)
for the PET context, and introduces the term "time zero" which is currently
specific to PET.

1.  **Session** - In most cases, a new session with respect to PET corresponds
    to a visit to the scanning site, and starts with a new injection.
    In situations where different data types are obtained over several visits
    (for example, FDG PET on one day followed by amyloid PET a couple days after)
    these scans may be grouped into the same session.
    In other datasets, a subject leaving the scanner and returning under the same

>     injection may be logically considered separate sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    injection may in some cases be considered separate sessions.
```

Author: I meant "logically" in terms of "for the purposes of analysis" (similar to a "logical partition" instead of "physical partition" in disk drives). I think I would prefer to just drop "logically".

> 1.  **Run** - In PET, it is common for subjects to leave the scanner to use the

Reviewer: I wouldn't say that it is common, but that it may happen (some times a scan may last for 120 minutes). 

```suggestion
1.  **Run** - In PET, subjects may have to leave the scanner to use the
```

The label used is arbitrary and each file requires a separate JSON sidecar
with details of the tracer used (see below).
Examples are `acq-18FFDG` for fludeoxyglucose or `acq-11CPIB` for Pittsburgh compound B.
Other labels are permitted, as long as they are consistent across subjects and sessions
and consist only of the legal label characters.

If more than one run of the same task and acquisition (tracer) are acquired during
the same session, the [`run-<index>`](../99-appendices/09-entities.md#run) entity MUST be used:
`_run-1`, `_run-2`, `_run-3`, and so on.
If only one run was acquired the `run-<index>` can be omitted.

The OPTIONAL [`rec-<label>`](../99-appendices/09-entities.md#rec) entity
is used to indicate the reconstruction method used for the image,
with four reserved values:

  - `acdyn`, for reconstructions with attenuation correction of dynamic data;
  - `acstat`, for reconstructions with attenuation correction of static data;
  - `nacdyn`, for reconstructions without attenuation correction of dynamic data;
  - `nacstat`, for reconstructions without attenuation correction of static data.

Further details regarding reconstruction are in the `_pet.json` file.

> If multiple reconstructions of the data are made with the same type,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If multiple reconstructions of the data are made with the same type of reconstruction,
```

Reviewer: @sappelhoff. I made som additional changes. I would like to wait for others to review it before merging. @melanieganz

Author: Applied.
